Doros is a multi-disciplinary hybrid, combining both art and technology skills, which he believes are necessary in order to survive in the new media world. He studied Multimedia Design and Technology and was awarded a BSc from the University of Kent and an MSc in Computer Animation from the same university. Continuing, he moved to London where he started studying under Prof. Johannes Birringer, writer, choreographer and director of Digital Media in the School of Arts, Brunel University.

He has completed his PhD in Digital Performance, where after four years lost in the chasm between the artists and the scientists has developed Emmeleia: A platform that can incorporate interactive real time 3d visuals in a stage performance or installation.

During this time he did extensive work on Game Engines, Arduino boards, Processing, wireless sensors, Max/MSP and camera vision systems. He has worked on a Vicon Motion Capture system, has taken lessons on Scenography, has debated the value of Interactivity in live stage performances and has understood the importance of aesthetics. He has worked with theorists, dancers, with live music composers, sound engineers, costume designers, stage designers and an assemble of other visual artists. He has traveled for shows to Germany, Tokyo, Slovenia and Singapore and his work was presented in the Laban Center and in Sadler’s Wells theatre in London. After completing a residency in the Cute Center, in the National University of Singapore he was employed by the Art, Design and Media School in Nanyang Technological University. There he worked under robotics artist Louis-Phillipe Demers on a multi-screen, audiovisual installation which used 4 inter-connected Kinects. Currently, he is a visiting lecturer at the Cyprus University of Technology.

His research interests include Interactive 3d Graphics and their use in New Media, the role of the phenomenal body in digital media, cross-realm spatial embodiment and the stage scenography of the virtual.
