Founder & CEO at StarTau - Tel Aviv University Entrepreneurship Center.

Since 2009, Oren is the Founder & CEO @ StarTAU, he assists entrepreneurs to take it to the next level through various programs and through collaboration with partners. StarTAU has one of the strongest track records in the Israeli pre-seed ventures industry. Its team members are professionals with extensive experience in education, coaching, one-on-one consulting and networking. StarTau focuses on pre-seed investments, predominantly specializing in new media, web and mobile technologies.

Oren is what one calls “Entrepreneur for Entrepreneurs”. Oren has initiated and established what most people would avoid doing- internal entrepreneurship within a large organization, such as a University. Greatly motivated by belief and passion, he has rapidly become proficient in new methods across various markets, creating innovative opportunities from scratch, both in business and technology.

As a key person in the start-up ecosystem in Israel, Oren has always tried to consider new practices, traveling the world and talking to his colleagues. Reflections regarding innovation for entrepreneurship are constantly on his mind.

In order to encourage outstanding students in the spirit of entrepreneurship, especially within the minority communities, Oren has designed tailor-made programs to assist members become entrepreneurs. Committed to equal opportunities for women, Oren designed a number of entrepreneurial programs to strengthen their presence in the start up ecosystem.

The people that Oren met along his way shared with him their ideas and gave him an inspiration. They are coming from all walks of life, ranging from academia to high-tech, industry and entrepreneurship. Among them are Ehud Gazit, TAU Professor and Chair; and the Chief Scientist of Israel Ministry of Science and Technology. Uri Levine Founder at Waze and guest lecturer at StarTAU, and Arnon Joseph Co-Founder & CEO at Hoozin. Oren has been an invited speaker on entrepreneurship in Israel and abroad including Cyprus and Chile and is a graduate in Accounting and Economics from Tel Aviv University. Oren is also a Professional Football referee in the Israeli top league.
