Stavros A. Zenios studied mathematics at University of London, electrical engineering with the Higher Technical Institute in Cyprus, and engineering management systems at Princeton University, receiving a doctorate in 1986.

He published more than 130 scholarly articles in some of the leading journals in the fields of finance, management science and operations research. His specialization is financial risk management. He authored five books and edited seven with Cambridge University Press, Blackwell and Wiley Finance. He co-authored with Yair Censor the award-winning book "Parallel Optimization", Oxford University Press. His work was translated in Chinese and received several prizes and awards. His publication record has h-index 41 on Google Scholar.

His latest book is in Greek, discussing an agenda for political reform of Cyprus in the 21st century, Papazisis Publishers, Athens, and is available in print edition and as as an e-book from www.fbrh.eu/zenios.

Currently he is studying –like many others-- the Cyprus financial crisis. His theses on navigating the financial crisis and leveraging it for growth in Cyprus are sought by local and international media as objective, constructive and innovative, amidst repetitive local propaganda.

He was a tenured associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and held visiting appointments at MIT (USA), University of Haifa (IL), Athens University of Economics and Management (GR), University of Bergamo (IT), Universidad San Andres (AR). He lectures extensively internationally. He worked as a consultant for the World Bank and several financial institutions (none of which is currently bankrupt).

He served for eight years as the Rector of University of Cyprus, and was elected twice as President of The Universities of the European Capitals UNICA.

With his wife Nina they climbed Kilimanjaro on August 17, 2002, reaching Uhuru peak (5,895m.) at 8.20am. They are also known to dance Argentinean tango, and he proudly acknowledges that she dances much better than he.
